hello this is the third video on index
numbers and we will demonstrate
calculation of last payers and past age
index using Microsoft actual let us
recall the formula that we need to find
out last payers and past days index we
need total of the price and quantity and
then we will need basic quantities for
last payers and current ear quantities
for past days now to demonstrate use of
axel I'm going to use the same data that
were discussed in previous videos which
we are regarding meat bread and bins
that were purchased in the year 1995 and
1996 I plotted these information in
Microsoft axel and also the formula to
calculate last payers and pastas index I
have said price in the year 1995 which
is the base year P not quantity in 1995
Q not
similarly price and quantity in 1996 P N
and Q n respectively
now we need to calculate P naught and Q
naught similarly we need P naught Q n
likewise we will need P and Q naught and
finally p and x qm we'll find all this
and then we will add them all together
to use for our respective
hola so P naught multiplied by Q zero
therefore B P naught multiplied by Q 0
similarly we find P naught Q n we cease
250 multiplied by the 25 here
likewise P and Q 0 which is 290
multiplied by 20 and finally we have
price and quantity for year 1996
multiplied which will give us this now
Excel has made it easy for us so we'll
basically copy this to find for older
two items which is which are bread and
bins now in the end we will add them all
together to find the aggregate rated
price which is going to be this and we
will just copy this and we get this now
in case of last payers index
what we need is P and Q 0 total so we
need P and Q due to total which is here
and over here Q 0 so all the time in
case of last payers the denominator will
be the same P naught Q 0 which is this
and case of past days it will be P and Q
in the one in the last column divided by
P naught Q 1 which is this column here
now we also need to multiply them by a
hundred so this is going to be the price
index using last pairs and this is our
price index using ASAE's method so we
can put them in order so this is going
to be our ear and this will be say lust
pairs index and here we have path J's
method and then we will keep the
relevant answers that we found so this
is year 1995 say year 0 and 99 6 a year
e1 and last payers we found for both
last person passes and year of 0 the
index value is 100 and in year yen in
ear 1 we found last pairs this and
passage we found one hundred fourteen
point five one eight nine so this is
basically how we should be calculating
last payers and passage index using
Microsoft Excel simple and
straightforward thank you